The Desired Objective, below, is the sole mechanism by which participating experience is possible for him. It is therefore emphasised to the point of compulsion.
Relatively inactive and in a static condition, while conflict of one sort or another prevents peace of mind. Unable to achieve relationships of the desired degree of mutual affection and understanding. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
The situation is difficult and he is trying to persist in his objectives against resistance. Finds it necessary to conceal his intentions as an added precaution, in order to disarm opposition. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
Having difficulty in making progress. Despite the attempt to conceal impulsiveness, his activities lead to problems and uncertainties, making him tense and irritable. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
Non-realisation of hopes and the inability to decide on necessary remedial action has resulted in considerable stress. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
The fear of rebuff and the extreme caution of his approach make it difficult for him to achieve the degree of intimacy and identification he desires.
Unable to exert the effort to achieve his objectives. Feels neglected, desiring greater security, warm affection and fewer problems. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
Under considerable stress due to the demands of the existing situation. Trying to extricate himself from the things which restrict him or tie him down. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
Sensitive and understanding but under some strain; needs to unwind in the company of someone close to him.
Acts calmly, with the minimum of upset, in order to handle existing relationships. Likes to feel relaxed and at ease with his associates and those close to him.
Acts in an orderly, methodical and self-contained manner. Needs the sympathetic understanding of someone who will give him recognition and approval.
Works well in cooperation with others but is disinclined to take the leading role. Needs a personal life of mutual understanding and freedom from discord.
Willing and adaptable. Only at peace when closely attached to a person, group or organisation on which reliance can be placed.
Sensitive, needs aesthetic surroundings, or an equally sensitive and understanding partner with whom to share a warm intimacy.
Avoids excessive effort and needs roots, security and peaceful companionship.
Needs warm companionship, but is intolerant of anything short of special consideration from those close to him. If this is not forthcoming is liable to shut himself away from them.
Defensive. Feels his position is threatened or inadequately established. Determined to pursue his objectives despite the anxiety induced by opposition.
Orderly, methodical and self-contained. Needs the respect, recognition and understanding of those close to him.
Persistent. Demands that what he feels to be his due and endeavours to maintain his position intact.
Authoritative or in a position of authority, but liable to feel that further progress is rendered problematic by existing difficulties. Perseveres despite opposition.
Trying to improve his position and prestige. Dissatisfied with his existing circumstances and considers some improvement essential to his self-esteem.
Working to improve his image in the eyes of others in order to obtain their compliance and agreement with his needs and wishes.
Working to create for himself a firm foundation on which to erect a secure, comfortable and problem-free future, in which he will be granted respect and recognition.
Pursues his objectives and his own self-interest with stubborn determination; refuses to compromise or make concessions.
Impulsive and irritable. His desires, and the actions involved, are paramount, insufficient consideration being given to their consequences. This leads to, or arises from, stress and conflict.
Works well in co-operation with others. Needs a personal life of mutual understanding and freedom from discord.
Exercises initiative in overcoming obstacles and difficulties. Either holds, or wishes to achieve, a position of authority in which control can be exerted over events.
Active, but feels that insufficient progress is being made or insufficient reward being obtained for the effort exerted.
Volatile and outgoing. Needs to feel that events are developing along desired lines, otherwise irritation can lead to changeability or superficial activities.
Readily participates in things affording excitement or stimulation. Wants to feel exhilarated.
Unwilling to extend himself or exert undue effort (with the possible exception of sexual activity). Feels that further progress requires more from him than he is willing or able to give. Would prefer reasonable comfort and security rather than the rewards of a greater ambition.
Feels obstructed in his desires and prevented from obtaining the things he regards as essential. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
Is seeking a solution to existing problems or anxieties, but is liable to find it difficult to decide on a right course to follow.
Easily affected by his environment and readily moved by the emotions of others. Seeks congenial relationships and an occupation that will promote them.
Hopes to obtain an improved position and greater prestige, so that he can procure for himself more of the things he has had to do without.
Active, outgoing and restless. Feels frustrated by the slowness with which events develop along the desired lines. This leads to irritability, changeability and lack of persistence when pursuing a given objective.
Attracted by anything new, modern or intriguing. Liable to be bored by the humdrum, the ordinary or the traditional.
Imaginative and sensitive; seeking an outlet for these qualities - especially in the company of someone equally sensitive. Interest and enthusiasm are readily aroused by the unusual or the adventurous.
Insecure. Seeks roots, stability, emotional security and an environment providing greater ease and fewer problems.
The existing situation contains critical or dangerous elements, for which it is imperative that some solution be found. This may lead to sudden, even reckless, decisions. Self-willed and rejects any advice from others. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
Seeks a close and understanding bond in an atmosphere of shared intimacy, as a protection against anxiety and conflict.
Seeks to share a bond of understanding intimacy in an aesthetic atmosphere of peace and tenderness.
Working to improve his image in the eyes of others so as to obtain their compliance and agreement with his needs and wishes.
Readily participates in things affording excitement or stimulation. Wants to feel exhilarated.
Imaginative and sensitive; seeking an outlet for these qualities - especially in the company of someone equally sensitive. Interest and enthusiasm are readily aroused by the unusual or the adventurous.
Seeks to express the need for identification in a sensitive and intimate atmosphere where aesthetic or emotional delicacy can be protected and nurtured.
Sensuous. Inclined to luxuriate in things which give gratification to the senses, but rejects anything tasteless,vulgar or coarse.
Needs, and insists on having, a close and understanding relationship, or at least some method of satisfying a compulsion to feel identified.
Unable to exert the effort to achieve his objectives. Feels neglected, desiring greater security, warm affection and fewer problems. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
Avoids excessive effort and needs roots, security and peaceful companionship. May be physically unwell, in need of gentle handling and considerate treatment.
Having difficulty in standing up to the demands imposed on him. Finds a great effort is involved and wishes to have the situation eased.
Having difficulty in making progress and unwilling to put forth further effort. Seeking more comfortable conditions where had can avoid anything disturbing.
Insecure. Seeks roots, stability, emotional security and an environment providing greater ease and fewer problems, but is either unwilling or unable to exert the effort.
Sensuous. Inclined to luxuriate in things which give gratification to the senses, but rejects anything tasteless, vulgar or coarse.
Uneasy and insecure in the existing situation. Needs greater security and a more affectionate environment, or a situation imposing less physical strain. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
Physical illness, over-tension or emotional distress have taken a severe toll. His self-esteem has been reduced and he now needs peaceful conditions and considerate treatment to permit recovery. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
Dissatisfied. The need to escape continued involvement with his present circumstances makes it imperative for him to find some solution. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
Needs peace and quiet. Desires a close and faithful partner from whom to demand special consideration and unquestioning affection. If these requirements are not met, is liable to turn away and withdraw altogether. The requirements he demands from his environment will be indicated in the Desired Objective, below.
Not only considers his demands minimal, but also regards them as imperative. Sticks to them stubbornly and will concede nothing. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
Feels obstructed in his desires and prevented from obtaining the things he regards as essential. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
The existing situation contains critical or dangerous elements for which it is imperative that some solution is found. This may lead to sudden, even reckless, decisions. Self-willed and rejects any advice from others. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
Needs, and insists on having, a close and understanding relationship, or at least some method of satisfying a compulsion to feel identified. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
Physical illness, over-tension or emotional distress have taken a severe toll. His self-esteem has been reduced and he now needs peaceful conditions and considerate treatment to permit recovery. (The Desired Objective, below, is an attempt to compensate for this and other conflicts.)
Conflict and dissatisfaction of one sort or another enforce the need for the compensations indicated by the Desired Objectives.
Displays impatience and agitation.
Refuses to relax or give in. Holding exhaustion and depression at bay by keeping active.
Will-power and perseverance are in danger of being overwhelmed by excessive stress.
Suppressed agitation resulting from the attempt to resist any form of stimulation ore excitement. Can lead to irritability, angry outbursts or even sexual neuroses. There is a possibility of cardiac complaints.
Stresses resulting from disappointment have led to agitation.
Stress due to suppressed sensitivity.
Suppression of the physical and nervous requirements of the body.
Pronounced susceptibility to outside stimuli.
Displays impatience and restlessness and inclined to be depressed.
Refuses to relax or give in. Holding exhaustion and depression at bay by keeping active.
Willpower and perseverance are in danger of being overwhelmed by excessive stress.
Suppressed agitation resulting from unsatisfactory or discordant personal relationships. Can lead to irritability, angry outbursts or sexual neuroses. There is a possibility of cardiac complaints.
Stress and anxiety have resulted from emotional disappointment.
Stress arising from lack of mutual understanding.
Emotional discontent and lack of appreciation have led to stress and excessive self-restraint.
Emotional dissatisfaction has given rise to a touchy and impatient desire for independence, leading to stress and restlessness.
The ability to withstand pressure has been overtaxed, leading to stress and frustration, impatience and irritability.
Emotional dissatisfaction and reduced ability to withstand opposition or difficulties are producing stress and frustration.
Willpower, resilience and the ability to stand up to opposition are in danger of being overwhelmed by excessive stress.
Distress and agitation resulting from the attempt to avoid any form of stimulation or excitement. Regards his environment as hostile and is under great pressure. Irritable or angry outbursts, with the possibility of sexual neuroses or cardiac complaints.
Stress and anxiety due to conflict between hope and necessity, following acute disappointment.
Stress resulting from a feeling of belittlement and misunderstanding.
Stress resulting from excessive self-restraint in the attempt to win the regard and esteem of others.
Frustration at unacceptable restrictions on his freedom of action is producing stress.
Suppressed agitation resulting from the attempt to resist any additional stimulation. Impatient, erratic and irritable, with the possibility of hypertension or other cardiac trouble.
Suppressed agitation resulting from the attempt to resist any additional stimulation combined with the inability to relax cause him to drive himself beyond the capacity of his resources. Impatient, irritable and hectic, with the possibility of hypertension or other cardiac trouble.
Agitated helplessness and inability to control events are subjecting him to great stress. Possibility of cardiac trouble and/or muscular spasm.
Suppressed and pent-up agitation resulting from the attempt to resist any additional stimulation, leading to irritability, angry outbursts or even sexual neuroses. There is a possibility of cardiac trouble.
Stresses resulting from disappointment have led to agitation and anxiety.
Stress resulting from frustration in his attempts to achieve security and understanding.
Tension arising from nervous prostration or from sexual stress, due to excessive self-restraint.
Stress arising from the frustrations of an unwanted situation .
Uncertainty and worries over missing opportunities have led to a condition of agitated tension.
Stress and anxiety have resulted from emotional disappointment.
Stress and anxiety due to conflict between hope and necessity, following acute disappointment.
Stresses resulting from disappointment have led to agitation and anxiety.
Stresses resulting from disappointment have led to agitation.
Disappointment has led to a suspicious, restrained withdrawal from others and into himself.
Stress resulting from the effort to conceal worry and anxiety under a cloak of self-reliance and unconcern.
Stress resulting from disappointment and watchful self-protection against further setback.
Displays impatience and agitation.
Refuses to relax or give in. Holding exhaustion and depression at bay by keeping active.
Stress resulting from the feeling of belittlement and misunderstanding.
Stress resulting from frustration in his attempts to achieve security and understanding. Nervous strength can become seriously depleted and there is a possibility of cardiac trouble.
Disappointment has led to a suspicious and restrained withdrawal from others and into himself.
Stress due to suppressed sensitivity.
Stress arising from the inability to maintain relationships stably in their desired condition.
Stress resulting from unwelcome restriction or limitation.
Stress arising from suppression of physical or sexual desires and insufficient consideration for bodily needs.
Emotional discontent and lack of appreciation have led to stress and excessive self-restraint.
Stress resulting from excessive self-restraint in the attempt to win the regard and esteem of others.
Stress arising from suppression of physical or sexual desires and insufficient consideration of bodily needs.
Stress resulting from the effort to conceal worry and anxiety under a cloak of self-reliance and unconcern.
Stress arising from the inability to maintain relationships stably in their desired state.
Stress arising from suppression of physical or sexual desires and insufficient consideration for bodily needs.
Stress resulting from unwelcome restriction or limitation, (or may just be the normal desire for independence.)
Pronounced susceptibility to outside stimuli.
Emotional dissatisfaction has given rise to a touchy and impatient desire for independence, leading to stress and restlessness.
Frustration at unacceptable restrictions on his freedom of action is producing stress.
Stress arising from the frustration of an unwanted situation.
Stress resulting from disappointment and watchful self-protection against further setbacks.
Stress resulting from unwelcome restriction or limitation.
Stress resulting from unwelcome restriction or limitation.
Stress arising from intensity (of feeling, endeavour, etc.)
Feels that life has far more to offer and that there are still important things to be achieved - that life must be experienced to the full. As a result, he pursues his objectives with a fierce intensity and will not let go of things. Becomes deeply involved and runs the risk of being unable to view things with sufficient objectivity, or calmly enough; is therefore in danger of becoming agitated and of exhausting his nervous energy. Cannot leave things alone and feels he can only be at peace when he has finally reached his goal.
An existing situation or relationship is unsatisfactory, but he feels unable to change it to bring about the sense of belonging which he needs. Unwilling to express his vulnerability, he therefore continues to resist this state of affairs, but feels dependent on the attachment. This not only depresses him but makes him irritable and impatient, producing considerable restlessness and the urge to get away from the situation, either actually or, at least, mentally. Ability to concentrate may suffer.
Resilience and tenacity have become weakened. Feels overtaxed, worn out and getting nowhere, but continues to stand his ground. He feels this adverse situation as an actual tangible pressure which is intolerable to him and from which he wants to escape, but he feels unable to make the necessary decision.
The situation is regarded as threatening and dangerous. Outraged at the thought that he will be unable to achieve his goals and distressed at his feeling of helplessness remedy this. Over-extended and feels beset, possibly to the point of nervous prostration.
Unfulfilled expectations have led to uncertainty and an apprehensive watchfulness. Badly needs to feel secure and protected against further disappointment, being passed over or losing standing and prestige. Doubtful that things will be any better in the future, but inclined nevertheless to make exaggerated demands and to reject compromise.
Delights in the tasteful, the gracious and the sensitive, but maintains his attitude of critical appraisal and refuses to be swept off his feet unless genuineness and integrity can be absolutely vouched for. Therefore keeps a strict and watchful control on his emotional relationships as he must know exactly where he stands. Demands complete sincerity as a protection against his own tendency to be too trusting.
The existing situation is disagreeable. Has an unsatisfied need to ally himself with others whose standards are as high as his own, and to stand out from the rank and file. His control of his sensual instincts restricts his ability to give himself, but the resulting isolation leads to the urge to surrender and allow himself to merge with another. This disturbs him, as such instincts are regarded as weaknesses to be overcome; he feels that only by continued self-restraint can he hope to maintain his attitude of individual superiority. Wants to be loved or admired for himself alone; needs attention, recognition and the esteem of others.
Wants to overcome a feeling of emptiness and bridge the gap which he feels separates him from others. Anxious to experience life in all its aspects, to explore all its possibilities and to live it to the full. He therefore resents any restriction or limitation being imposed on him and insists on being free and unhampered.
Feels he cannot control the situation to create the sense of belonging he needs, and so remains unwilling to place himself unreservedly in another's hands. Is resisting a condition or a relationship which he regards as a discouraging responsibility. Feels life has far more to offer and is likely to remain impatient and irritable until he has obtained all he feels still lacks. The urge to get away from this unsatisfactory state leads to restlessness and instability. Concentration may suffer.
An existing situation or relationship is unsatisfactory, but he feels unable to change it to bring about the sense of belonging which he needs. Unwilling to expose his vulnerability, he therefore continues to resist this state of affairs, but feels dependent on the attachment. This not only depresses him, but makes him irritable and impatient, producing considerable restlessness and the urge to get away from the situation, either actually or, at least, mentally. Ability to concentrate may suffer.
Resilience and tenacity are being overtaxed by the continued attempt to overcome existing difficulties. Sticks to his objectives but feels subjected to intolerable pressure. Considers it impossible to change the situation into one of cooperation and mutual trust and so desires to be free of it altogether.
Considerable distress is arising from some unsatisfactory relationship. He feels helpless to restore affinity and any semblance of mutual trust, so the situation is regarded as a depressing and unhappy state which he must continue to tolerate. Beset to the point of nervous prostration.
An emotional relationship is no longer running smoothly, has proved deeply disappointing and is now regarded as a depressing tie. While on the one hand, he would like to free himself from this attachment altogether, yet, on the other, he does not want to lose anything or risk uncertainty and the possibility of further disappointment. These contradictory emotions aggravate him to such and extent that he tries to suppress them beneath an aloof and severe attitude.
An existing situation is unsatisfactory and he feels unable to improve it without willing cooperation. The need for understanding and for affectionate give-and-take remains unsatisfied; he now had a feeling of being tied down, giving rise to impatience, irritability and the desire to escape.
Feels he must have cooperation before the existing situation can be improved. Lack of understanding and appreciation makes him feel no real bond exists, and discontent gives rise to a touchy sensitivity; he wants to feel safer and more at ease. He would like to get away from what he now considers a depressing tie and re-establish his own individuality. His sensual self-restraint makes it difficult for him to give himself, but the resulting isolation leads to the urge to surrender and merge with another. This disturbs him as he regards such instincts as weaknesses to be overcome - he feels hat he can only assert his own individuality by continued self-restraint, that this alone will allow him to stand his ground through his present difficulties.
An existing situation or relationship is unsatisfactory, but he feels unable to improve it without willing cooperation. Unwilling to expose his vulnerability and therefore considers it inadvisable to display affection or be over-demonstrative. He regards the relationship as a depressing tie, but although he wants to be independent and unhampered, he does not want to risk losing anything. All this leads him to react touchily and with impatience, while the urge to "get away from it all" results in considerable restlessness. The ability to concentrate may suffer.
Has lost the resilience and strength of will to contend with existing difficulties. Feels overtaxed and getting nowhere, but continues to stand his ground and still pursues his objectives with fierce intensity. This subjects him to intolerable pressure from which he wants to escape, but he cannot bring himself to make the necessary decision. As a result he remains firmly involved in the problem and can neither view it objectively nor get rid of it - he cannot leave it alone and feels he will only be at peace when he has reached his objective.
Has lost the resilience and strength of will necessary to contend with existing difficulties, which appear to him as deliberate opposition. Stand his ground, but is subjected to intolerable pressure. Needs cooperation and emotional fulfilment and feels that, in their absence, there is nothing he can do to improve the current situation. Wants to "get away from it all" quickly.
The tenacity and strength of will necessary to contend with existing difficulties has become weakened. Feels overtaxed, worn out and getting nowhere, but continues to stand his ground. He feels this adverse situation as an actual tangible pressure which is intolerable to him and from which he wants to escape, but he feels unable to make the necessary decision.
Distressed by the apparent hostility of the environment. Feels coerced and subjected to intolerable pressure. Is rebellious and resentful of what he regards as unreasonable demands on him, but feels powerless to control the situation and unable to protect himself.
Disappointment and unfulfilled hopes have given rise to an anxious uncertainty, while doubts that things will be any better in the future lead to the postponement of essential decisions. This conflict between hope and necessity is creating considerable pressure. Instead of resolving this by facing up to making the essential decision, he is likely to immerse himself in the pursuit of trivialities as an escape route.
Feels in an invidious position: that trust, affection and understanding are being withheld and that he is being treated with a humiliating lack of consideration. Considers he is being denied the appreciation essential to his self-esteem and there is nothing he can do about it. Disheartened by the lone struggle against difficulties with no encouragement. Feels he is getting nowhere; that instead of the admiration he needs, he is consistently misunderstood. Wants to escape from the situation but cannot find the strength of mind to make the necessary decision.
Has an unsatisfied need to ally himself with others whose standards are as high as his own, and to stand out from the rank and file. This subjects him to considerable stress, but he sticks to his attitudes despite lack of appreciation. Finds the situation uncomfortable and would like to break away from it, but refuses to compromise with his opinions. Unable to resolve the situation because he continually postpones making the necessary decision as he doubts his ability to withstand the opposition which would result. Needs the esteem of others, compliance with his wishes and respect for his opinions before he can feel at ease and secure.
Seeks independence and freedom from any restriction and therefore avoids obligations or anything which might prove hampering. He is being subjected to considerable pressure and wants to escape from it so that he can obtain what he needs, but tends to lack the necessary strength of purpose to succeed in this.
The situation is regarded as threatening and dangerous. Resentful that what he has striven so hard for is being menaced, and desperate because he feels powerless to prevent it - fears that he id going to miss out altogether. Unable to view the situation objectively, but extremely agitated and cannot rest in his attempts to remove this threat to his desires. Over-extended and feels beset, possibly to the point of nervous prostration.
Distressed by the unsatisfactory state of some close association. Feels unable to do anything to restore affinity and mutual trust. And considers that he is tied down in an unhappy situation from which he cannot escape.
Acutely distressed by what appears as a hostile environment. Feels he is being subjected to intolerable pressure and driven against his will. Rebellious and resentful at what he considers unreasonable demands on him, but feels powerless to control the situation or protect himself in any way.
The situation is regarded as threatening and dangerous. Outraged by the thought that he will be unable to achieve his goals and distressed at the feeling of helplessness to remedy this. Over-extended and feels beset, possibly to the point of nervous prostration.
Eager to make a good impression, but worried and doubtful about he likelihood of succeeding. Feels that he has a right to anything he might hope for, and becomes helpless and distressed when circumstances go against him. Finds the mere possibility of failure most upsetting and this can even lead to nervous prostration. Sees himself as a "victim" who has been misled and abused, mistakes this dramatisation for reality and tries to convince himself that his failure to achieve standing and recognition is the fault of others.
Is responsive to outside stimuli and wants to experience everything intensely, but is finding the existing situation extremely frustrating. Needs sympathetic understanding and a sense of security. Distressed by his apparent powerlessness to achieve his goals.
Feels unappreciated and find the existing situation disagreeable. Wants personal recognition and the esteem of others to compensate of the lack of like-minded people with whom to ally himself and make himself more secure. His sensual self-restraint make it difficult for him to give himself, but the resulting isolation lead to the urge to surrender and merge with another. This disturbs him as he regards such instincts as weaknesses to be overcome only by not succumbing to them, he feels, can he withstand the difficulties of the situation. Wants to be valued as a desirable associate and admired for his personal qualities.
Feels trapped in a disagreeable situation and powerless to remedy it. Angry and disgruntled as he doubts that he will be able to achieve his goals and frustrated almost to the point of nervous prostration. Wants to get away, feel less restricted and free to make his own decisions.
Feels that life must yield more than it is and that his hopes and desires must somehow be realised - that they must be granted in their entirety. The existing uncertainty causes considerable worry and he is tensely on his guard against missing any opportunity. Anxious to avoid further setbacks, any loss of standing or prestige. Tries to make sure that he will not be overlooked and badly needs security.
An emotional relationship is no longer running smoothly, has proven deeply disappointing and is now regarded as a depressing tie. While on the one hand, he would like to free himself from this attachment altogether, yet, on the other, he does not want to lose anything nor risk uncertainty and the possibility of further disappointment. These contradictory emotions aggravate him to such an extent that he tries to suppress them beneath an aloof and severe attitude.
Disappointment and unfulfilled hopes have given rise to an anxious uncertainty, while doubts that things will be any better in the future lead to the postponement of essential decisions. This conflict between hope and necessity is creating considerable pressure. Instead of resolving this by facing up to making the essential decision, he is likely to immerse himself in the pursuit of trivialities as an escape route.
Eager to make a good impression, but worried and doubtful about the likelihood of succeeding. Feels that he had a right to anything he might hope for, and becomes helpless and distressed when circumstances go against him. Finds the mere possibility of failure most upsetting and this can even lead to nervous prostration. Sees himself as a "victim" who has been misled and abused, mistakes this dramatisation for reality, and tries to convince himself that his failure to achieve standing and recognition is the fault of others.
Unfulfilled hopes have led to uncertainty and apprehension. Needs to feel secure and to avoid any further disappointment, and fears being passed over or losing standing and prestige. Doubts that things will be any better in the future and this negative attitude leads him to make exaggerated demands and to refuse to make reasonable compromises.
Suppresses his innate enthusiasm and imaginative nature, for fear that he might be carried away by it only to find himself pursuing some will-o'-the-wisp. Feels he has been misled and abused and has withdrawn to hold himself cautiously aloof from others. Keeps a careful and critical watch to see whether motives towards him are sincere - a watchfulness which easily develops into suspicion and distrust.
The existing situation is disagreeable. Feels lonely and uncertain as he has an unsatisfied need to ally himself with others whose standards are as high as his own, and wants to stand out from the rank and file. This sense of isolation magnifies the need into a compelling urge, all the more upsetting to his self-sufficiency because of the restraint he normally imposes on himself. Since he wants to demonstrate the unique quality of his own character, he tries to suppress this need for others and affects an attitude of unconcerned self-reliance to conceal his fear of inadequacy, treating those who criticise his behaviour with contempt. However, beneath this assumption of indifference he really longs for the approval and esteem of others.
Unfulfilled hopes have led to uncertainty and a tense watchfulness. Insists on freedom of action and resents any form of control other than that which is self-imposed. Unwilling to go without or to relinquish anything and demands security as a protection against any further setback or loss of position and prestige. Doubts that things will be any better in the future and this negative attitude leads him to exaggerate his claim and to refuse reasonable compromises.
Feels that life has far more to offer and that it is imperative that he should find the responsive and understanding relationship he is seeking; he therefore follows up any opportunity which presents itself. However, he maintains his attitude of critical appraisal and refuses to be swept off his feet unless genuineness and integrity can be absolutely vouched for. Therefore keeps a strict and watchful control on his emotional relationships as he must know exactly where he stands. Demands complete sincerity as a protection against his own tendency to be too trusting.
An existing relationship is unsatisfactory but he feels unable to change it without cooperation; the need for understanding, for affectionate give-and-take remains unfulfilled. This not only depresses him but makes him irritable and impatient, producing restlessness and the urge to get away from the situation, either actually or, at least, mentally. Ability to concentrate may suffer.
Feels in an invidious position, that trust, affection and understanding are being withheld and that he is being treated with an humiliating lack of consideration. Considers he is being denied the appreciation essential to his self-esteem and that there is nothing he can do about it. Disheartened by the lone struggle against difficulties with no encouragement. Feels he is getting nowhere; that instead of the admiration he needs, he is consistently misunderstood. Wants to escape from the situation but cannot find the strength of mind to make the necessary decision.
Is responsive to outside stimuli and wants to experience everything intensely, but is finding the existing situation extremely frustrating. Needs sympathetic understanding and a sense of security. Distressed by his apparent powerlessness to achieve his goals.
Suppresses his innate enthusiasm and imaginative nature, for fear he might be carried away by it only to find himself pursuing some will-o'-the-wisp. Feels he has been misled and abused and has withdrawn to hold himself cautiously aloof from others. Keeps a careful and critical watch to see whether motives towards him are sincere - a watchfulness which easily develops into suspicion and distrust.
Delights in the tasteful, the precious and the sensitive, but maintains his attitude of critical appraisal and refuses to be swept off his feet unless genuineness and integrity can be absolutely vouched for. Therefore keeps a strict and watchful control on his emotional relationships as he must know exactly where he stands. Demands complete sincerity as a protection against his own tendency to be too trusting.
Wants a partner with whom he can share fully in an atmosphere of cloudless serenity, but his compulsion to demonstrate his individuality leads him to adopt a critical and demanding attitude. This introduces discord and leads to alternating periods of drawing closer and drawing apart, so that the ideal state he desires is not allowed to develop. Despite the urge to gratify his natural desires, he imposes a considerable self-restraint on his instincts in the belief that this demonstrates his superiority and raises him above the common herd. Discerning, critical and particular, having taste and discrimination. These qualities, combined with his tendency to form his own views, enable him to judge things for himself and to express his opinions with authority. He enjoys the original, the ingenuous and the subtle, striving to ally himself with others of similar taste who can help him in his intellectual unfolding. Desires admiration and the esteem of others.
Strives for straight-forward relationships, founded on mutual trust and understanding. Wishes to act only in conformity with his own convictions. Demands freedom to make his own decisions without being subjected to interference, outside influence or the necessity of making compromises.
The existing situation is disagreeable. Has an unsatisfied need to ally himself with others whose standards are as high as his own, and to stand out from the common herd. His control of his sensual instincts restricts his ability to give himself, but the resulting isolation leads to the urge to surrender and allow himself to merge with another. This disturbs him, as such instincts are regarded as weaknesses to be overcome; he feels that only by continued self-restraint can he hope to maintain his attitude of individual superiority. Wants to be loved or admired for himself alone; needs attention, recognition and the esteem of others.
Feels he must have cooperation before the existing situation can be improved. Lack of understanding and appreciation makes him feel no real bond exists, and discontent gives rise to a touchy sensitivity; he wants to feel safer and more at ease. He would like to get away from what he now considers a depressing tie and re-establish his own individuality. His sensual self-restraint makes it difficult for him to give himself, but the resulting isolation leads to the urge to surrender and merge with another. This disturbs him, as he regards such instincts as weaknesses to be overcome; he feels that he can only assert his own individuality by continued self-restraint and this only will allow him to stand his ground through his present difficulties.
Has an unsatisfied need to ally himself with others whose standards are as high as his own, and to stand out from the rank and file. This subjects him to considerable stress, but he sticks to his attitudes despite lack of appreciation. Finds the situation uncomfortable and would like to break away from it, but refuses to compromise with his opinions. Unable to resolve the situation because he continually postpones making the necessary decision, as he doubts his ability to withstand the opposition which would result. Needs the esteem of others, compliance with his wishes and respect for his opinions before he can feel at ease and secure.
Feels unappreciated and finds the existing situation threatening. Wants personal recognition and the esteem of others to compensate for the lack of like-minded people with whom to ally himself and make himself more secure. His sensual self-restraint makes it difficult or him to give himself, but the resulting isolation leads to the urge to surrender and merge with another. This disturbs him, as he regards such instincts as weaknesses to be overcome; he feels that only in this way can he withstand the difficulties of the situation. Wants to be valued as a desirable associate and be admired for his personal qualities.
The existing situation is disagreeable. Feels lonely and uncertain as he has an unsatisfied need to ally himself with others whose standards are as high as his own and to stand out from the rank and file. This sense of isolation magnifies his need into a compelling urge, all the more upsetting to his self-sufficiency because of the restraint he imposes on himself. Since he wants to demonstrate the unique quality of his own character, he tries to suppress this need for others, and affects an attitude of unconcerned self-reliance to conceal his fear of inadequacy, treating those who criticise his behaviour with contempt. However, beneath this assumption of indifference he really longs for the approval and esteem of others.
Sensitive, and susceptible to gentleness and delicacy of feeling, with a desire to blend into some sort of mystic fusion of erotic harmony. However, this desire remains unsatisfied due to lack of a suitable partner or adverse conditions, and he keeps a strict and watchful control on his emotional relationships as he needs to know precisely where he stands. Is fastidious, aesthetic and has a cultured taste which allows him to form and express his own taste and judgment, especially in the fields of art and artistic creativity. Strives to ally with others who can assist him in his intellectual or artistic growth.
Has an unsatisfied need to ally himself with others whose standards are as high as his own, and to stand out from the common herd. This desire for pre-eminence isolates him and inhibits his readiness to give himself freely. While he wants to surrender and let himself go, he regards this as a weakness which must be resisted. This self-restraint, he feels, will lift him above the rank and file and ensure recognition as a unique and distinctive personality.
Wants freedom to follow his own convictions and principles, to achieve respect as an individual in his own right. Desires to avail himself of every possible opportunity without having to submit to limitations or restrictions.
Wants to overcome a feeling of emptiness and of separation from others. Believes that life still has far more to offer and that he may miss his share of experiences if he fails to make the best use of every opportunity. He therefore pursues his objectives with a fierce intensity and commits himself deeply and readily. Feels himself to be completely competent in any field in which he engages, and can sometimes be considered by others to be interfering and meddlesome.
An existing situation or relationship is unsatisfactory, but he feels unable to improve it without willing cooperation. Unwilling to expose his vulnerability and therefore considers it inadvisable to display affection or be over-demonstrative. He regards the relationship as a depressing tie, but although he wants to be independent and unhampered, he does not want to risk losing anything. All this leads him to react touchily and with impatience, while the urge to get away results in considerable restlessness. The ability to concentrate may suffer.
Seeks independence and freedom from any restriction and therefore avoids obligations or anything which might prove hampering. He is being subjected to considerable pressure and wants to escape from it so that he can obtain what he needs, but tends to lack the necessary strength of purpose to succeed in this.
Feels trapped in a disagreeable situation and powerless to remedy it. Angry and disgruntled as he doubts that he will be able to achieve his goals, and frustrated almost to the point of nervous prostration. Wants to get away, to feel less restricted and be free to make his own decisions.
Unfulfilled hopes have led to uncertainty and a tense watchfulness. Insists on freedom of action and resents any form of control other than that which is self-imposed. Unwilling to go without or relinquish anything, and demands security as a protection against any further setback or loss of position and prestige. Doubts that things will be any better in the future, and this negative attitude leads him to exaggerate his claims and to refuse reasonable compromises.
Sensitive and impressionable, prone to absorbing enthusiasms. Seeks an idealised - but so far unfulfilled - situation in which he can share with another a complete accord and mutual depth of understanding. Feels there is a risk of being exploited if he is too ready to trust others and therefore demands proof of their sincerity. Needs to know exactly where he stands in his relationships.
Resists any form of pressure from others and insists on his independence as an individual. Wants to make up his own mind without interference, to draw his own conclusions and arrive at his own decisions. Detests uniformity and mediocrity. As he wants to be regarded as one who gives authoritative opinions, he finds it difficult to admit to being wrong, while at times he is reluctant to accept or understand another's point of view.
Wishes to be independent, unhampered and free from any limitation or restriction, other than those which he imposes on himself by his own choice and decision.
Impatient involvement.
Restless dissatisfaction.
Unresolved pressure.
Helpless irritability.
Apprehensive insecurity.
Controlled responsiveness.
Demands esteem as an exceptional individual.
Expectant self-determination.
Restless and impatient non-fulfilment.
Restless dissatisfaction.
Pressure arising from stress and discord.
Helpless and irritable disharmony.
Stress arising from emotional disappointment.
Impatience arising from continued misunderstanding.
Emotional discontent arising from lack of appreciation and undue self-restraint.
Restless instability arising from emotional dissatisfaction.
Unresolved involvement.
Pressure arising from stress and discord.
Reluctance to take the steps necessary to resolve a stress situation.
Helpless rebelliousness.
Frustrated vacillation.
Humiliated by lack of appreciation.
Stubborn but ineffectual demand for esteem.
Frustrated desire for independence and freedom of action.
Desperate agitation.
Distress resulting from disharmony.
Helpless resentment.
Helplessness.
Unrealistic self-justification.
Frustrated empathy.
Insecurity arising from lack of allies.
Frustrated desire for independence.
Tensely expectant.
Stress arising from emotional disappointment.
Frustrated vacillation.
Unrealistic self-justification.
Agitated pessimism; fearful of losing prestige.
"Once bitten, twice shy"; emotional disappointment leading to watchful mistrust of motive.
Disappointment leading to assumed indifference.
Watchful and retentive.
Controlled responsiveness.
Restlessness due to emotional dissatisfaction.
Humiliated by lack of appreciation.
Emotional and empathic frustration.
"Once bitten, twice shy"; emotional disappointment leading to watchful mistrust of motive.
Controlled and analytical responsiveness.
Intellectual or aesthetic discrimination.
Demands independence and "straight dealing".
Demands esteem as an exceptional individual.
Emotional discontent arising from lack of appreciation and undue self-restraint.
Stubborn but ineffectual demand for esteem.
Insecurity arising from lack of allies.
Disappointment leading to assumed indifference.
Sublimated artistic sensitivity.
Demands esteem from others.
Desire to control one's own destiny.
Intense involvement.
Restless instability arising from emotional dissatisfaction.
Frustrated desire for independence and freedom of action.
Frustrated desire for independence.
Watchful and retentive.
Demand for shared independence.
Demand for independence and perfectionism.
Desire to control one's own destiny.
Willing to participate and willing to allow himself to become involved, but tries to fend off conflict and disturbance in order to reduce tension.
Relationships rarely measure up to his high emotional expectations and his need to be made much of, leading to disappointment (often characteristic of mother-fixation, taking the form of either strong attachment to, or resentment of, the mother). Always has mental reservations and tends to remain emotionally isolated and unattached.
Feels he is receiving less than his share, but that he will have o conform and make the best of his situation.
Feels listless, hemmed in and anxious; considers that circumstances are forcing him to restrain his desires. Wants to avoid open conflict with others and to have peace and quiet.
Demanding and particular in his relations with his partner or those close to him, but careful to avoid open conflict since this might reduce his prospects of realising his hopes and ideas.
Egocentric and therefore quick to take offence.
Willing to become emotionally involved and able to achieve satisfaction from sexual activity.
Circumstances are such that he feels forced to compromise for the time being if he is to avoid being cut off from affection or from full participation.
Has high emotional demands and is willing to involve himself in a close relationship, but not with any great depth of feeling.
Remains emotionally unattached even when involved in a close relationship.
Believes that he is not receiving his share - that he is neither properly understood nor adequately appreciated. Feels that he is being compelled to conform, and close relationships leave him without any sense of emotional involvement.
Feels cut off and unhappy because of the difficulty in achieving the essential degree of cooperation and harmony which he desires.
Exacting in his emotional demands and very particular in his choice of partner. The desire for emotional independence prevents any depth of involvement.
Egocentric and therefore quick to take offence, leaving him rather isolated in his attachments.
Able to obtain physical satisfaction from sexual activity but is inclined to be emotionally withdrawn, which prevents him from becoming deeply involved.
Emotionally inhibited. Feels forced to compromise, making it difficult for him to form a stable emotional attachment.
An unadmitted lack of confidence makes him careful to void open conflict and he feels he must make the best of things as they are.
Believes that he is not receiving his share - that he is neither properly understood nor adequately appreciated. Feels that he is being compelled to conform, and close relationships leave him without nay sense of emotional involvement.
The situation is preventing him from establishing himself, but he feels he must make the best of things as they are.
Unhappy at the resistance he feels whenever he tries to assert himself. Indignant and resentful because of these setbacks, but gives way apathetically and makes whatever adjustments are necessary so that he can have peace and quiet.
Feels that he is burdened with more than his fair share of problems. However, he sticks to his goals and tries to overcome his difficulties by being flexible and accommodating.
Feels that he is receiving less than his share and that there is no one on whom he can rely for sympathy and understanding. Pent-up emotions make him quick to take offence, but he realises that he has to make the best of things as they are.
Feels that he cannot do much about his existing problems and difficulties and that he must make the best of things as they are. Able to achieve satisfaction through sexual activity.
Circumstances are forcing him to compromise, to restrain his demands and hopes, and to forgo for the time being some of the things he wants.
Distressed by the obstacles with which he is faced and in no mood for any form of activity or for further demands on him. Needs peace and quiet, and the avoidance of anything which might distress him further.
Feels cut off and unhappy because of the difficulty of achieving the essential degree of cooperation and harmony which he desires.
Unhappy at the resistance he feels whenever he tries to assert himself. However, he believes that there is little he can do and that he must make the best of his situation.
Trying to calm down and unwind after a period of over-agitation which has left him listless and devoid of energy. In need of peace and quiet; becomes irritable if this is denied him.
Wants to broaden his fields of activity and insists that his hopes and ideas are realistic. Distressed by the fear that he may be prevented from doing what he wants; needs both peaceful conditions and quiet reassurance to restore his confidence.
Becomes distressed when his needs or desires are misunderstood and feels that he has no one to turn to or rely on. Egocentric and therefore quick to take offence.
Feels trapped in a distressing or uncomfortable situation and seeking some way of gaining relief. Able to achieve satisfaction from sexual activity.
Circumstances are restrictive and hampering, forcing him to forgo all joys and pleasures for the time being.
Willing to become emotionally involved, but demanding and particular in his choice of a partner and in his relations with those close to him. Needs reassurance and is careful to avoid open conflict since this might reduce his prospects of realising his hopes.
Exacting in his emotional demands, especially during moments of intimacy, leaving him frustrated in his desire for a perfect union.
Feels that he is burdened with more than his fair share of problems. However, he sticks to his goals and tries to overcome his difficulties by being flexible and accommodating.
Wants to broaden his fields of activity and insists that his hopes and ideas are realistic. Distressed by the fear that he may be prevented from doing what he wants; needs both peaceful conditions and quiet reassurances to restore his confidence.
Clings to his belief that his hopes and ideals are realistic, but needs encouragement and reassurance. Applies very exacting standards to his choice of a partner and wants guarantees against loss or disappointment.
Insists that his hopes and ideas are realistic, but needs reassurance and encouragement. Egocentric and therefore quick to take offence.
Very exacting in the standards he applies to his choice of partner and seeking a rather unrealistic perfection in his sex-life.
Insists that his goals are realistic and sticks obstinately to them, even though circumstances are forcing him to compromise. Very exacting in the standards he applies to his choice of a partner.
Willing to become emotionally involved as he feels rather isolated and alone. Egocentric and therefore quick to take offence, though he tries to avoid open conflict.
Feels rather isolated and alone, but is too reserved to allow himself to form deep attachments. Egocentric and therefore quick to take offence.
Feels that he is receiving less that his share and that there is no one on whom he can rely for sympathy and understanding. Pent-up emotions and a certain egocentricity make him quick to take offence, but he realises that he has to make the best of things as they are.
Becomes distressed when his needs or desires are misunderstood and feels that he has no on to turn to or rely on. Egocentric and therefore quick to take offence.
Insists that his hopes and ideas are realistic, but needs reassurance and encouragement. Egocentric and therefore quick to take offence.
Egocentric and therefore quick to take offence. Sensitive and sentimental, but conceals this from all except those very close to him.
Egocentric and therefore quick to take offence. Able to obtain physical satisfaction from sexual activity but tends to hold aloof emotionally.
Conditions are such that he will not let himself become intimately involved without making mental reservations.
Willing to become emotionally involved and able to achieve satisfaction from sexual activity, but tries to avoid conflict.
Able to achieve physical satisfaction from sexual activity but restless and inclined to be emotionally withdrawn, which prevents him from becoming deeply involved.
Feels that he cannot do much about his existing problems and difficulties and that he must make the best of things as they are. Able to achieve physical satisfaction from sexual activity.
Feels trapped in a distressing or uncomfortable situation and seeking some way of gaining relief. Able to achieve satisfaction through sexual activity providing no turmoil or emotional agitation is involved.
Very exacting in the standards he applies to his choice of partner and seeking an unrealistic perfection in his sex-life.
Egocentric and therefore quick to take offence. Able to obtain physical satisfaction from sexual activity but tends to hold aloof emotionally.
Able to achieve satisfaction from sexual activity.
Circumstances force him to compromise and to forgo some pleasures for the time being. Capable of achieving physical satisfaction from sexual activity.
Circumstances are such that he feels forced to compromise for the time being if he is to avoid being cut off from affection or from full participation.
Emotionally inhibited. Feels forced to compromise, making it difficult for him to form a stable emotional attachment.
Circumstances are forcing him to compromise, to restrain his demands and hopes, and to forgo for the time being some of the things he wants.
Circumstances are restrictive and hampering, forcing him to forgo all joys and pleasures for the time being.
Insists that his goals are realistic and sticks obstinately to them, even though circumstances are forcing him to compromise. Very exacting in the standards he applies to his choice of a partner.
Conditions are such that he will not let himself become emotionally involved without making mental reservations.
Circumstances force him to compromise and to forgo some pleasures for the time being. Capable of achieving physical satisfaction through sexual activity. 
Feels that things stand in his way, that circumstances are forcing him to compromise and forgo some pleasures for the time being.
Unwilling to participate and wishes to avoid all forms of stimulation. Has had to put up with too much of a tiring or exhausting nature and now desires protection and non-involvement.
Feels exhausted by conflict and quarrelling and desires protection from them. Needs peaceful conditions and a tranquil environment in which to relax and recover.
Feels the existing circumstances are hostile and is exhausted by conflict and quarrelling. Wishes to protect himself and hides his intentions to avoid exposing them to attack, so that they will be safer and easier to achieve. Careful to avoid stirring up any opposition which might endanger his plans.
Has exaggerated demands on life which are concealed behind specious rationalisation and cautious behaviour. Wishes to impress others with his achievements, but camouflages this desire and is inclined to be covert.
Desires release from an unsatisfactory situation and from existing burdens which are both depressing and intolerable. Seeking a way out, but feels there is not solution. Tries to protect himself against becoming involved in arguments and conflict.
Fascinated by the idea of an idealised association of tenderness and mutual enchantment. Embarrassed by the thought of allowing this to appear openly, and so employs cautious exploratory tactics in the pursuit of this objective, making sure that he is neither irrevocably committed nor found out.
Desires protection against anything which might exhaust or tire him. Seeks a life of security and physical ease, free from any problem or disturbance.
Feels he has been unjustly and undeservedly treated and betrayed in his hopes. Disgruntled and in revolt against the existing circumstances which he considers an affront.
Needs release from stress. Longs for peace, tranquillity and contentment.
Desires a tranquil, peaceful state of harmony offering quiet contentment and a sense of belonging.
Needs a peaceful environment. Wants release from stress, and freedom from conflicts or disagreement. Takes pains to control the situation and its problems by proceeding cautiously. Has sensitivity of feeling and a fine eye for detail.
Seeks affectionate, satisfying and harmonious relationships. Desires an intimate union, in which there is love, self-sacrifice and mutual trust.
Seeks an affectionate relationship, offering fulfilment and happiness. Capable of powerful emotional enthusiasm. Helpful, and willing to adapt himself if necessary to realise the bond of affection he desires. Needs the same consideration and understanding from others.
Longs for tenderness and for a sensitivity of feeling into which he can blend. Responsive to anything aesthetic and tasteful.
Desires a conflict free haven offering security and physical ease. Is in need of considerate treatment and loving care. Fears the emptiness and solitude of separation.
Urgently in need of rest, relaxation, peace and affectionate understanding. Feels he has been treated with a lack of consideration and is upset and agitated as a result. Regards his situation as intolerable as long as his requirements are not complied with.
Wants to establish himself and make an impact despite unfavourable circumstances and a general lack of appreciation.
Wants to make a favourable impression and be recognised. Needs to feel appreciated and admired. Sensitive and easily hurt if no notice is taken of him or he is not given adequate acknowledgement.
Seeks the determination and elasticity of will necessary to establish himself and to make himself independent despite the difficulties of his situation. Wants to overcome opposition and achieve recognition.
Seeks success. Wants to overcome obstacles and opposition and to make his own decisions. Pursues his objectives single-mindedly and with initiative. Does not want to feel dependent on the good will of others.
Needs recognition. Ambitious, wants to impress and be looked up to, to be both popular and admired. Seeks to bridge the gap which he feels separates him from others.
Wants to make a favourable impression and be regarded as a special personality. Is therefore constantly on the watch to see whether he is succeeding in this and how others are reacting to him; this makes him feel that he is in control. Uses tactics cleverly in order to obtain influence and special recognition. Susceptible to the aesthetic or original.
Feels too much is being asked of him and is tired out; but still wants to overcome his difficulties and establish himself despite the effect such an effort would have on him. Proud, but resigned in his attitude. Needs recognition, security and fewer problems.
Wants to prove to himself and others that nothing can affect him, that he is superior to any form of weakness. As a result, he acts with harshness or severity and adopts an autocratic and self-willed attitude.
Wants to sweep aside the things that stand in his way, to follow his impulses and be involved in special or exciting happenings. In this way he hopes to deaden the intensity of his conflicts, but his impulsive behaviour leads him to take risks.
Strives for a life rich in activity and experience, and for a close bond offering sexual and emotional fulfilment.
Pursues his objectives with intensity and does not allow himself to be deflected from his purpose. Wants to overcome the obstacles with which he is faced and to achieve special recognition and standing from his success.
Intense, vital and animated, taking a delight in action. Activity is directed towards success or conquest and there is a desire to live life to the full.
Seeks success, stimulation and a life full of experience. Wants to develop freely and to shake off the shackles of self-doubt, to win and to live intensely. Likes contacts with others and is enthusiastic by nature. Receptive to anything new, modern or intriguing; has many interests and wants to expand his fields of activity. Optimistic about the future.
Preoccupied with things of an intensely exciting nature, whether erotically stimulating or otherwise. Wants to be regarded as an exciting and interesting personality with an altogether charming and impressive influence on others. Uses tactics skilfully so as to avoid endangering his chances of success or undermining others' confidence in himself.
Shelves his ambitions and forgoes his desire for prestige as he prefers to take things easily and indulge his longing for comfort and security.
Wants to make up for what he feels he has missed by living with exaggerated intensity; in this way he feels he can break free from all the things that oppress him.
Needs a way of escape from all that oppresses him and is clinging to vague and illusory hopes.
Hopes that ties of affection and good-fellowship will bring release and contentment. His own need for approval makes him ready to be of help to others and in exchange he wants warmth and understanding. Open to new ideas and possibilities which he hopes will prove fruitful and interesting.
Alert and keenly observant. Is seeking fresh avenues offering greater freedom and the chance to make the most of them. Wants to prove himself and to achieve recognition. Striving to bridge the gap which he feels separates him from others.
His need to feel more causative and to have a wider sphere of influence makes him restless and he is driven by his desires and hopes. May try to spread his activities over too wide a field.
Needs a change in his circumstances or in his relationships which will permit relief from stress. Seeking a solution which will open up new and better possibilities and allow hopes to be fulfilled.
Over-imaginative and given to fantasy or day-dreaming. Longs for interesting and exciting things to happen and wants to be admired for his charm.
In despair and needs relief of some sort. Wants physical ease, a problem-free security and the chance to recover.
Tries to escape from his problems, difficulties and tensions by abrupt, headstrong and ill-considered decisions or changes of direction.
Longs for sensitive and sympathetic understanding and wants to protect himself against argument, conflict or any exhausting stresses.
Longs for a tender and sympathetic bond and for a situation of idealised harmony. Has an imperative need for tenderness and affection. Susceptible to anything aesthetic.
Wants to make a favourable impression and be regarded as a special personality. Is therefore constantly on the watch to see whether he is succeeding in this and how others are reacting to him; this makes him feel that he is in control. Uses tactics cleverly in order to obtain influence and special recognition. Susceptible to the aesthetic and original.
Takes easily and quickly to anything which provides stimulation. Preoccupied with things of an intensely exciting nature, whether erotically stimulating or otherwise. Wants to be regarded as an exciting and interesting personality with an altogether charming and impressive influence on others. Uses tactics cleverly so as to avoid endangering his chances of success or undermining others' confidence in himself.
Wants interesting and exciting things to happen. Able to make himself well-liked by his obvious interest and by the very openness of his charm. Over-imaginative and given to fantasy and day dreaming.
Needs to feel identified with someone or something and wishes to win support by his charm and amiability. Sentimental, and yearns for a romantic tenderness.
Wishes to find his stimulation in a voluptuous atmosphere of sensuous luxury.
Has an imperative need for some bond or fusion with another which will prove sensually fulfilling, but which will not conflict with his convictions or sense of fitness.
Badly in need of rest and relaxation, freedom from conflict and the chance to recover. Wants to protect himself against destructive and exhausting influences. Longs for security and freedom from problems.
Wants contentment, physical ease and the absence of conflict. Needs security and clings to it so as not to have to suffer loneliness or separation.
Keeps himself under strict control so as not to break down under his difficulties. Needs a safer and easier situation in which he can feel more secure and have a chance to recover.
Has a powerful drive towards sensuousness.
Feels that there is little prospect of achieving his hopes and therefore surrenders himself to a life of sensuous ease, free from any problems.
Seeks luxury, sensuous comfort and the indulgence of a taste for the voluptuous.
Seeks freedom from problems and a secure state of physical ease in which to relax and recover.
Sets himself idealistic but illusory goals. Has been bitterly disappointed and turns his back on life in a weary self-disgust. Wants to forget it all and recover in a comfortable, problem-free situation.
Feels the situation is hopeless. Strongly resists those things which he finds disagreeable (for details, see above). Tries to shield himself from anything which might irritate him or make him feel more depressed.
Suffering from the effects of those things which are being rejected as disagreeable (for details, see above), and is strongly resisting them. Just wants to be left in peace.
Defiantly opposes any sort of restriction or opposition. Sticks obstinately to his own point of view in the belief that this proves his independence and self-determination.
Suffering from pent-up over-stimulation which threatens to discharge itself in an outburst of impulsive and impassioned behaviour.
Tries to escape from his problems, difficulties and tensions by abrupt, headstrong and ill-considered decisions. Desperately seeking a way of escape, and there is a danger of reckless behaviour to the point of self-destruction.
Demands that ideas and emotions shall merge and blend perfectly. Refuses to make any concessions or to accept any compromises.
Sets himself idealistic but illusory goals. Has been bitterly disappointed and turns his back on life in weary self-disgust. Wants to forget it all and recover in a comfortable, problem-free situation.
Considers the existing circumstances disagreeable and over-demanding. Refuses to allow anything to influence his point of view.
Has an ambivalent attitude varying between cautious reserve and the fear of not receiving his due.
Anxiety and restless dissatisfaction, either with circumstances or with unfulfilled emotional requirements, have produced tension and stress. His attempt to escape from these consists of creating at least an outward semblance of peace by refusing to allow himself to be involved.
Failure to establish himself in a manner consonant with his own high opinion of his worth, combined with the continued effort to prove himself with inadequate resources, have resulted in considerable stress. Tries to escape from these excessive demands on his meagre reserves by adopting a defensive attitude in which he refuses to be committed, or to be involved in further unpleasantness.
Depleted vitality has created an intolerance for any further stimulation, or demands on his resources. A feeling of powerlessness subjects him to agitation, irritation and acute distress from which he tries to escape by refusing further direct participation. He confines himself to a cautious approach and a concealed determination to get his own way in the end.
Disappointment at the non-fulfilment of his hopes and the fear that to formulate fresh goals will only lead to further setbacks have resulted in considerable anxiety. He tries to escape from this by withdrawing and protecting himself with an attitude of cautious reserve. Moody and depressed.
Needs to protect himself against his tendency to be too trusting, as he finds it is liable to be misunderstood or exploited by others. As a result, he adopts a critical and standoffish attitude, being willing to participate only where he can be assured of sincerity and trustworthiness.
The unsatisfied desire to be respected, to stand out from amongst his fellows, is causing some anxiety. As a result, normal gregariousness is suppressed and he refuses to allow himself to become involved, to participate with others in their ordinary activities.
Fears that his independence will be threatened or severely restricted unless he protects himself from any outside influence. Does not want to be bothered.
Needs to achieve a stable and peaceful condition, enabling him to free himself of the worry that he may be prevented from achieving all the things he wants.
Has an ambivalent attitude varying between a relaxed contentment and a restless dissatisfaction.
The tensions and stresses induced by trying to cope with conditions which are really beyond his capabilities or reserves of strength have led to considerable anxiety, and a sense of personal (but unadmitted) inadequacy. He seeks to escape into a more peaceful and problem-free situation, in which he will no longer have to assert himself or contend with so much pressure.
Depleted vitality has created an intolerance for any further stimulation, or demands on his resources. A feeling of powerlessness subjects him to agitation and acute distress. Tries to escape from this by relinquishing the struggle, and by finding peaceful and restful conditions in which to recuperate in an atmosphere of affection and security.
Disappointment at the non-fulfilment of his hopes and the fear that to formulate fresh goals will only lead to further setbacks have resulted in considerable anxiety. He is trying to escape from this into a peaceful and harmonious relationship, protecting him from dissatisfaction and lack of appreciation.
Needs to protect himself against his tendency to be too trusting, as he finds it is liable to be misunderstood or exploited by others. Is therefore seeking a relationship providing peaceful and understanding intimacy, and in which each knows exactly where the other stands.
Wants to be valued and respected and seeks this from a close and peaceful association of mutual esteem.
Does not wish to be involved in differences of opinion, contention or argument, preferring to be left in peace.
Afraid that he may be prevented from achieving the things he wants and therefore demands that others should recognise his right to them.
Anxiety and restless dissatisfaction, either with his circumstances or with unfulfilled emotional demands, have produced stress. He tries to escape from these by denying their existence, concealing his dissatisfaction behind a proud but illusory claim to self-sufficiency and independence.
Has an ambivalent attitude varying between self-insistence and the desire to escape the pressures which oppose it.
Depleted vitality has created an intolerance for any further stimulation, or demands on his resources. This sense of powerlessness, combined with frustration that he cannot control events, subjects him to agitation, irritation and acute distress. He tries to escape from these but stubborn insistence on his own point of view, but the general condition of helplessness renders this often unsuccessful. Is therefore very sensitive to criticism and quick to take offence.
Disappointment and the fear that there is no point in formulating fresh goals have led to anxiety. Desires recognition and position, but is worried about his prospects. Reacts to this by protesting at any criticism and resisting any attempt to influence him. Tries to assert himself by meticulous control of detail in an effort to strengthen his position.
Works to strengthen his position and bolster his self-esteem by examining his own accomplishments (and those of others) with critical appraisal and scientific discrimination. Insists on having things clear-cut and unequivocal.
Needs to be valued and respected as an exceptional individual, in order to increase his self-esteem and his feeling of personal worth. Resists mediocrity and sets himself high standards.
Strongly resists outside influence and any interferences with his freedom to make his own decisions and plans. Works to establish and strengthen his own position.
The fear that he may be prevented from achieving the things he wants leads him to play his part with an urgent and hectic intensity.
Anxiety and a restless dissatisfaction, either with circumstances or with unfulfilled emotional needs, have produced stress. He tries to escape by intense activity, directed either towards personal success or towards variety of experience.
The tensions induced by trying to cope with conditions which are really beyond his capabilities, or his reserves of strength, have led to considerable anxiety and to a sense of personal (but unadmitted) inadequacy. He attempts to remedy this by intense activity and by insistence on getting his own way. Faulty self-control can lead to ungovernable displays of anger.
Has an ambivalent attitude varying between the desire to have his own way and the need to be left in peace.
Disappointment and the fear that there is no point in formulating fresh goals have led to stress and anxiety. He wants congenial contact with others and scope for development, but feels that his relationships are empty and his progress impeded. He reacts with an intense and zealous activity designed to achieve his aims at all costs.
Wants to act freely and uninhibitedly, but is restrained by his need to have things on a rational, consistent and clearly-defined basis.
Takes a delight in action and wants to be respected and esteemed for his personal accomplishments.
Fights against restriction or limitation, and insists on developing freely as a result of his own efforts.
The fear that he may be prevented from achieving the things he wants leads him into a restless search for satisfaction in the pursuit of illusory or meaningless activities.
Anxiety and restless dissatisfaction, either with his circumstances or with unfulfilled emotional needs, have produced stress. He feels misunderstood, disoriented and unsettled. This drives him into a search for new conditions or relationships, in the hope that these might offer greater contentment and peace of mind.
The tensions induced by trying to cope with conditions which are really beyond his capabilities, or reserves of strength, have led to considerable anxiety and a sense of personal (but unadmitted) inadequacy. He reacts by seeking outside conformation of his ability and value in order to bolster his self-esteem. Inclined to blame other so that he may shift the blame from himself. Anxiously searching for solutions and prone to compulsive inhibitions and compulsive desires.
Agitation, unpredictability and irritation accompanying depleted vitality and intolerance of further demands have all place him in a position in which he feels menaced by his circumstances. Feeling powerless to remedy this by any action of his own, he is desperately hoping that some solution will provide a way of escape.
Has an ambivalent attitude varying between an optimistic desire for fulfilment and a gloomy pessimism.
Intensely critical of the existing conditions which he feels are disorganised or insufficiently clear-cut. Is therefore seeking some solution which will clarify the situation and introduce a more acceptable degree of order and method.
Feels insufficiently valued in his existing situation and is seeking different condition in which he will have greater opportunity of demonstrating his worth.
Feels restricted and prevented from progressing; seeking a solution which will remove these limitations.
Has a fear that he may be prevented from achieving the things he wants. This leads him to employ great personal charm in his dealings with others, hoping that this will make it easier for him to reach his objectives.
Anxiety and a restless dissatisfaction, either with his circumstances or with unfulfilled emotional needs, have produced considerable stress. He tries to escape into an idealised atmosphere of sympathy and understanding, or into a substitute environment of aestheticism and beauty.
The tensions induced by trying to cope with conditions which are really beyond his capabilities, or reserves of strength, have led to considerable anxiety and a sense of personal (but unadmitted) inadequacy. He attempts to escape from this into a substitute world in which things are more nearly as he desires them to be.
Depleted vitality has created an intolerance for any further stimulation, or demands on his resources. This feeling of powerlessness subjects him to agitation and acute distress. He attempts to escape from this into an illusory substitute world in which things are more nearly as he desires them to be.
Disappointment and the fear that there is no point in formulating fresh goals have led to anxiety, and he is distressed by the lack of any close and understanding relationship. He attempts to escape into a substitute world in which these disappointments are submerged and things are more nearly as he desires them to be.
Has an ambivalent attitude varying between the desire for uncritical companionship and disdain of others for their lack of taste and understanding.
Greatly impressed by the unique, by originality and by individuals of outstanding characteristics. Tries to emulate the characteristics he admires and to display originality in his own personality.
Seeks to avoid criticism and to prevent restriction of his freedom to act, and to decide for himself by the exercise of great personal charm in his dealings with others.
The fear that he may be prevented from achieving the things he wants increases his need for security and freedom from conflict. Is therefore seeking stability and an environment in which he can relax.
Anxiety and restless dissatisfaction, either with circumstances or with unfulfilled emotional needs, have produced considerable stress. He tries to escape from these into a conflict-free security in which he can relax and recover.
The tensions induced by trying to cope with conditions which are really beyond his capabilities, or his reserves of strength, have led to considerable anxiety and a sense of personal (but unadmitted) inadequacy. He attempts to escape from this into a stable and secure environment in which he can relax and recover, far from any further demands on him.
Depleted vitality has created an intolerance for any further stimulation, or demands on his resources. This sense of powerlessness subjects him to agitation and acute distress. He attempts to escape into a stable and secure environment in which he can relax and recover.
Disappointment and the fear that there is no point in formulating fresh goals have led to anxiety, and he is distressed by the lack of any close and understanding relationship or adequate appreciation. He attempts to escape into a stable and secure environment in which he can relax and feel more contented.
Wishes to safeguard himself against criticism or conflict and to entrench himself in a stable and secure position; but is himself inclined to be critical of others and difficult to please.
Has an ambivalent attitude varying between a need for contented security and a desire for special recognition.
Seeks security and a position in which he will no longer be troubled by demands being made on him.
The fear that he may be prevented from achieving the things he wants drives him to the exploitation of all types of experience, so that he may categorically deny that any of them has any value. This destructive denigration becomes his method of concealing hopelessness and a profound sense of futility.
Anxiety and a restless dissatisfaction, either with circumstances or with unfulfilled emotional needs, have produced considerable stress. He reacts by putting this down to a total lack of understanding on the part of others, and by adopting a scornful and defiant attitude.
The tensions induced by trying to cope with conditions which are really beyond his capabilities, or his reserves of strength, have led to considerable anxiety and a sense of personal (but unadmitted) inadequacy. His inability to enforce his will causes him to over-react in stubborn defiance and by assigning to others all the blame for his own failures.
Depleted vitality has created an intolerance for any future stimulation, or demands on his resources. This feeling of powerlessness subjects him to agitation and acute distress, He reacts by considering that he has been victimised, and insists - with indignation, resentment and defiance - on being given his own way.
Disappointment and the fear that there is no point in formulating fresh goals have led to anxiety, emptiness and an unadmitted self-contempt, His refusal to admit this leads to his adopting a headstrong and defiant attitude.
His natural ability to examine everything with critical discrimination has been distorted into an attitude of harsh disapproval, which opposes and denigrates without regard to the real facts.
The need for esteem - for the chance to play some outstanding part and make a name for himself - has become imperative. He reacts by insisting on being the centre of attention, and refuses to play an impersonal or minor role.
Has an ambivalent attitude varying between normal individualism and a stubborn denigration of any other viewpoint.
Has the 'elasticity of will' which allows him to persist despite opposition or difficulties, because by persisting one can accomplish the task and thus enhance one's own self-esteem. Work that he wants to do will be done well and be well integrated, partly for the purpose of increasing his self-esteem and his stature in the eyes of others.
Has the 'force of will' that desires action and effectiveness, to gain the satisfaction that comes from having moulded something to suit oneself. Work that he wants to do will be done well and be well integrated, partly out of the desire to feel that he has won a battle over something he decided to tackle.
Can gain 'spontaneous enjoyment' from action, and has the ability to project himself, and the expectancy which looks forward to the outcome of the job - and even to new and interesting jobs that may be waiting. Work that he wants to do will be done well and be well integrated, partly because he enjoys projecting himself into something in which he can be interested.
